reference-architectures/deploy-arch-ibm-slz-vsi-quickstart.md, before:

---

copyright:
  years: 2023
lastupdated: "2023-04-13"

keywords:

subcollection: deployable-reference-architectures

authors:
  - name: "Vincent Burckhardt"

# The release that the reference architecture describes
version: 3.5.0

# Use if the reference architecture has deployable code.
# Value is the URL to land the user in the IBM Cloud catalog details page
# for the deployable architecture.
# See https://test.cloud.ibm.com/docs/get-coding?topic=get-coding-deploy-button
deployment-url: https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/architecture/deploy-arch-ibm-slz-vsi-ef663980-4c71-4fac-af4f-4a510a9bcf68-global

docs: https://test.cloud.ibm.com/docs/secure-infrastructure-vsi

image_source: https://github.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-landing-zone/reference-architectures/vsi-pattern.png

related_links:
  - title: "VSI on VPC landing zone - Standard variation"
    url: "https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/deployable-reference-architectures?topic=deployable-reference-architectures-vsi-ra"
    description: "The VSI on VPC landing zone standard variation is a deployable architecture that is based on the IBM Cloud for Financial Services reference and that provides virtual servers in a secure VPC for your workloads."

use-case: Cybersecurity
industry: Banking,FinancialSector

content-type: reference-architecture

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# VSI on VPC landing zone - QuickStart variation
{: #vsi-ra-qs}
{: toc-content-type="reference-architecture"}
{: toc-industry="Banking,FinancialSector"}
{: toc-use-case="Cybersecurity"}
{: toc-version="3.5.0"}

The QuickStart variation of the VSI on VPC landing zone deployable architecture creates a fully customizable Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) environment in a single region. The solution provides virtual servers in a secure VPC for your workloads. The QuickStart variation is designed to deploy quickly for demonstration and development.

## Architecture diagram
{: #ra-vsi-qs-architecture-diagram}

![Architecture diagram for the QuickStart variation of VSI on VPC landing zone](vsi-quickstart.drawio.svg "Architecture diagram of VSI on VPC landing zone deployable architecture"){: caption="Figure 1. QuickStart variation of VSI on VPC landing zone" caption-side="bottom"}{: external download="vsi-quickstart.drawio.svg"}

## Design requirements
{: #ra-vsi-qs-qs-design-requirements}

![Design requirements for VSI on VPC landing zone](heat-map-deploy-arch-slz-vsi-quickstart.svg "Design requirements"){: caption="Figure 2. Scope of the design requirements" caption-side="bottom"}

<!--
TODO: Add the typical use case for the architecture.
The use case might include the motivation for the architecture composition,
business challenge, or target cloud environments.
-->
## Components
{: #ra-vsi-qs-components}

### VPC architecture decisions
{: #ra-vsi-qs-components-arch}

| Requirement | Component | Reasons for choice | Alternative choice |
|-------------|-----------|--------------------|--------------------|
| * Provide infrastructure/application administration access to monitor, operate, and maintain the environment.  \n * Limit the number of infrastructure/application administration entry points to ensure security audit. | Management VPC service | Create a separate VPC service where SSH connectivity from outside is allowed | |
| * Provides compute, storage, and network services to support hosted applications and operations that deliver services to the consumer.  \n * Ensure you can reach IBM Cloud services, Workload VPC and Management VPC | Workload VPC service|Create a separate VPC service as an isolated environment, without direct public internet connectivity and without direct SSH access | |
| Create a virtual server instance to support hosted applications | Workload virtual server instance | Create a VPC virtual server instance that can act as a workload server to support hosted applications. Configure ACL and security group rules allow access to IBM Cloud services, Workload and Management VPC's | |
| Create a virtual server instance as the only management access point to the environment | Jump box host VPC instance | Create a Linux VPC instance that acts as a jump box host. Configure ACL and security group rules to allow SSH connectivity (port 22). Add a public IP address to the VPC instance. | |
| * Set up network for all created services  \n * Isolate network for all created services  \n * Ensure all created services are interconnected | Secure landing zone components | Create a minimum set of required components for a secure landing zone | Create a modified set of required components for a secure landing zone in preset |
{: caption="Table 1. Architecture decisions" caption-side="bottom"}

### Network security architecture decisions
{: #ra-vsi-qs-components-arch-net-sec}

| Requirement | Component | Reasons for choice | Alternative choice |
|-------------|-----------|--------------------|--------------------|
| * Isolate management VPC and allow SSH network connections from public network  \n * All other connections from or to management VPC are forbidden except for IBM services and VPC | ACL and security group rules in management VPC|Open following ports by default: 22 (for limited number of IPs)  \n All ports to other VPCs are open |More ports might be opened in preset or added manually after deployment |
| * Isolate workload VPC and allow only a limited number of network connections  \n * All other connections from or to workload VPC are forbidden | ACL and security group rules in workload VPC | Allow connectivity for IBM Cloud services, Workload VPC and Management VPC | More ports might be opened in preset or added manually after deployment |
| Enable floating IP on jump box host | Floating IPs on jump box host in management VPC|Use floating IP on jump box host for administration access | |
{: caption="Table 2. Network security architecture decisions" caption-side="bottom"}

### Key and password management architecture decisions
{: #ra-vsi-qs-components-arch-key-pw}

| Requirement | Component | Reasons for choice | Alternative choice |
|-------------|-----------|--------------------|--------------------|
| * Use public and private SSH keys to access virtual server instances by using SSH  \n * Do not store private SSH key on any virtual instances, also not on the jump box host  \n * Do not allow any other SSH login methods except the one with the specified public and private SSH key pair | Public and private SSH keys provided by customer | Ask customer to specify the keys. Accept the input as secure parameter or as reference to the key stored in IBM Cloud Secure Storage Manager. | |
{: caption="Table 3. Key and passwords management architecture decisions" caption-side="bottom"}

Commit message:

docs: add docs metadata to ref arch
Adds the boolean flag `production`, which will determine whether the RA is published to production.

reference-architectures/deploy-arch-ibm-slz-vsi-quickstart.md, after:

---

copyright:
  years: 2023
lastupdated: "2023-04-13"

keywords:

subcollection: deployable-reference-architectures

authors:
  - name: "Vincent Burckhardt"

# The release that the reference architecture describes
version: 3.5.0

# Whether the reference architecture is published to Cloud Docs production.
# When set to false, the file is available only in staging. Default is false.
production: true

# Use if the reference architecture has deployable code.
# Value is the URL to land the user in the IBM Cloud catalog details page
# for the deployable architecture.
# See https://test.cloud.ibm.com/docs/get-coding?topic=get-coding-deploy-button
deployment-url: https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/architecture/deploy-arch-ibm-slz-vsi-ef663980-4c71-4fac-af4f-4a510a9bcf68-global

docs: https://test.cloud.ibm.com/docs/secure-infrastructure-vsi

image_source: https://github.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-landing-zone/reference-architectures/vsi-pattern.png

related_links:
  - title: "VSI on VPC landing zone - Standard variation"
    url: "https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/deployable-reference-architectures?topic=deployable-reference-architectures-vsi-ra"
    description: "The VSI on VPC landing zone standard variation is a deployable architecture that is based on the IBM Cloud for Financial Services reference and that provides virtual servers in a secure VPC for your workloads."

use-case: Cybersecurity
industry: Banking,FinancialSector

content-type: reference-architecture

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# VSI on VPC landing zone - QuickStart variation
{: #vsi-ra-qs}
{: toc-content-type="reference-architecture"}
{: toc-industry="Banking,FinancialSector"}
{: toc-use-case="Cybersecurity"}
{: toc-version="3.5.0"}

The QuickStart variation of the VSI on VPC landing zone deployable architecture creates a fully customizable Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) environment in a single region. The solution provides virtual servers in a secure VPC for your workloads. The QuickStart variation is designed to deploy quickly for demonstration and development.

## Architecture diagram
{: #ra-vsi-qs-architecture-diagram}

![Architecture diagram for the QuickStart variation of VSI on VPC landing zone](vsi-quickstart.drawio.svg "Architecture diagram of VSI on VPC landing zone deployable architecture"){: caption="Figure 1. QuickStart variation of VSI on VPC landing zone" caption-side="bottom"}{: external download="vsi-quickstart.drawio.svg"}

## Design requirements
{: #ra-vsi-qs-qs-design-requirements}

![Design requirements for VSI on VPC landing zone](heat-map-deploy-arch-slz-vsi-quickstart.svg "Design requirements"){: caption="Figure 2. Scope of the design requirements" caption-side="bottom"}

<!--
TODO: Add the typical use case for the architecture.
The use case might include the motivation for the architecture composition,
business challenge, or target cloud environments.
-->
## Components
{: #ra-vsi-qs-components}

### VPC architecture decisions
{: #ra-vsi-qs-components-arch}

| Requirement | Component | Reasons for choice | Alternative choice |
|-------------|-----------|--------------------|--------------------|
| * Provide infrastructure/application administration access to monitor, operate, and maintain the environment.  \n * Limit the number of infrastructure/application administration entry points to ensure security audit. | Management VPC service | Create a separate VPC service where SSH connectivity from outside is allowed | |
| * Provides compute, storage, and network services to support hosted applications and operations that deliver services to the consumer.  \n * Ensure you can reach IBM Cloud services, Workload VPC and Management VPC | Workload VPC service|Create a separate VPC service as an isolated environment, without direct public internet connectivity and without direct SSH access | |
| Create a virtual server instance to support hosted applications | Workload virtual server instance | Create a VPC virtual server instance that can act as a workload server to support hosted applications. Configure ACL and security group rules allow access to IBM Cloud services, Workload and Management VPC's | |
| Create a virtual server instance as the only management access point to the environment | Jump box host VPC instance | Create a Linux VPC instance that acts as a jump box host. Configure ACL and security group rules to allow SSH connectivity (port 22). Add a public IP address to the VPC instance. | |
| * Set up network for all created services  \n * Isolate network for all created services  \n * Ensure all created services are interconnected | Secure landing zone components | Create a minimum set of required components for a secure landing zone | Create a modified set of required components for a secure landing zone in preset |
{: caption="Table 1. Architecture decisions" caption-side="bottom"}

### Network security architecture decisions
{: #ra-vsi-qs-components-arch-net-sec}

| Requirement | Component | Reasons for choice | Alternative choice |
|-------------|-----------|--------------------|--------------------|
| * Isolate management VPC and allow SSH network connections from public network  \n * All other connections from or to management VPC are forbidden except for IBM services and VPC | ACL and security group rules in management VPC|Open following ports by default: 22 (for limited number of IPs)  \n All ports to other VPCs are open |More ports might be opened in preset or added manually after deployment |
| * Isolate workload VPC and allow only a limited number of network connections  \n * All other connections from or to workload VPC are forbidden | ACL and security group rules in workload VPC | Allow connectivity for IBM Cloud services, Workload VPC and Management VPC | More ports might be opened in preset or added manually after deployment |
| Enable floating IP on jump box host | Floating IPs on jump box host in management VPC|Use floating IP on jump box host for administration access | |
{: caption="Table 2. Network security architecture decisions" caption-side="bottom"}

### Key and password management architecture decisions
{: #ra-vsi-qs-components-arch-key-pw}

| Requirement | Component | Reasons for choice | Alternative choice |
|-------------|-----------|--------------------|--------------------|
| * Use public and private SSH keys to access virtual server instances by using SSH  \n * Do not store private SSH key on any virtual instances, also not on the jump box host  \n * Do not allow any other SSH login methods except the one with the specified public and private SSH key pair | Public and private SSH keys provided by customer | Ask customer to specify the keys. Accept the input as secure parameter or as reference to the key stored in IBM Cloud Secure Storage Manager. | |
{: caption="Table 3. Key and passwords management architecture decisions" caption-side="bottom"}
