examples/one-vpc-one-vsi/README.md, before:

# One VPC with one VSI example

The examples shows how you can use the landing zone module to create a basic, minimal topology by using an `override.json` file.
1. A single VPC:
   - Named `management` in this example
   - Includes three subnets across the three availability zone to host VSIs
   - Default, open network ACLs
2. One single VSI:
   - Named 'jump-box' in this example
   - Located in one of the 'vsi' subnets of the VPC
   - Publicly exposed via a floating IP address.
   - Open security groups

This example also creates the minimum encryption and audit infrastructure.
- A Key Protect instance and key that is used to encrypt the VSI boot volume
- The Activity Tracker infrastructure (Activity Tracker route to an encrypted COS bucket that stores audit events)

:exclamation: **Important:** This example shows an example of basic topology. The topology is not highly available or validated for the IBM Cloud Framework for Financial Services.

Example usage:
```
export TF_VAR_ibmcloud_api_key=<your api key> # pragma: allowlist secret
terraform apply -var=ssh_key='ssh-rsa ...' -var=region=eu-gb -var=prefix=my_slz
```

Commit message:

fix: landing zone configuration tool updates (#801)

examples/one-vpc-one-vsi/README.md, after:

# One VPC with one VSI example

The examples shows how you can use the landing zone module to create a basic, minimal topology by using an `override.json` file.

:information_source: **Tip:** You can use the [landing zone configuration tool](https://terraform-ibm-modules.github.io/landing-zone-config-tool/#/home) to further customize the `override.json` file.

The example deploys the following infrastructure:

- A single VPC that is named `management` with 3 subnets across the three availability zone to host VSIs. By default, the network ACLS are open.
- A single VSI that is name `jump-box` and located in one of the `vsi` subnets of the VPC. It is publicly exposed with a floating IP address and with open security groups.

The example also creates the minimum encryption and audit infrastructure:

- A Key Protect instance and key that is used to encrypt the VSI boot volume.
- The Activity Tracker infrastructure: An Activity Tracker route to an encrypted COS bucket that stores audit events.

:exclamation: **Important:** This example shows an example of basic topology. The topology is not highly available or validated for the IBM Cloud Framework for Financial Services.

Example usage:

```sh
export TF_VAR_ibmcloud_api_key=<your api key> # pragma: allowlist secret
terraform apply -var=ssh_key='ssh-rsa ...' -var=region=eu-gb -var=prefix=my_slz
```
