patterns/vsi-extension/README.md, before:

# Add a VSI to a landing zone VPC

This architecture creates virtual server instances (VSI) for VPC in some or all of the subnets of any existing landing zone VPC deployable architecture.

## Before you begin

- You must have either the [VPC landing zone](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/architecture/deploy-arch-ibm-slz-vpc-9fc0fa64-27af-4fed-9dce-47b3640ba739-global) or [Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on VPC landing zone](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/architecture/deploy-arch-ibm-slz-ocp-95fccffc-ae3b-42df-b6d9-80be5914d852-global) deployable architecture deployed.
- The block storage to KMS auth policy must exist. This policy would have been created by one of the above deployable architectures if the `add_kms_block_storage_s2s` variable was set to `true`, which is default value.
- You need the VPC ID, subnet names, and boot volume encryption key from your existing landing zone VPC deployable architecture. For information about finding these values, see [Adding a VSI to your VPC landing zone deployable architecture](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/secure-infrastructure-vpc?topic=secure-infrastructure-vpc-ext-with-vsi).

![Architecture diagram for adding a VSI to your VPC landing zone deployable architecture](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-landing-zone/main/reference-architectures/vsi-extension.drawio.svg)

Commit message:

feat: onboard "Existing VPC" VSI extension deployable architecture to IBM catalog (#610)

patterns/vsi-extension/README.md, after:

# Add a VSI to a landing zone VPC

This architecture creates virtual server instances (VSI) in some or all of the subnets of one VPC of an existing landing zone deployable architecture. To create VSIs in multiple VPCs, deploy the extension once for each VPC.

## Before you begin

- You must have either the [VPC landing zone](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/architecture/deploy-arch-ibm-slz-vpc-9fc0fa64-27af-4fed-9dce-47b3640ba739-global) or [Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform on VPC landing zone](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/architecture/deploy-arch-ibm-slz-ocp-95fccffc-ae3b-42df-b6d9-80be5914d852-global) deployable architecture deployed.
- You need an authorization policy that grants access between block storage and the KMS. The policy exists if you set the `add_kms_block_storage_s2s` input variable to `true` (the default value) in your existing landing zone deployable architecture.
- You need the VPC ID, subnet names, and boot volume encryption key from your existing landing zone deployable architecture. For information about finding these values, see [Adding a VSI to your VPC landing zone deployable architecture](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/secure-infrastructure-vpc?topic=secure-infrastructure-vpc-ext-with-vsi).

![Architecture diagram for adding a VSI to your VPC landing zone deployable architecture](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-landing-zone/main/reference-architectures/vsi-extension.drawio.svg)
